# Welcome

Welcome! We are glad you are interested in contributing to Helm Datadog plugin. 
This guide will help you understand the requirements and guidelines to improve your contributor experience.

## Contributing to code

### Signing commits

Datadog requires all contributors to sign their commits. If you don't currenty sign your commits, follow [GitHub's documentation on how to set up your signing keys and start signing your commits](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/signing-commits).

### New features

If you want to contribute with a new feature, before start writing any code, you will need to get your proposal accepted by the maintainers. This is to avoid going through the effort of writing the code and getting it rejected because it is already being worked on in a different way, or it is outside the scope of the project.

Open a new issue with the title "[RFC] Title of your proposal". In the description explain carefully why you think this feature is needed, why it is useful, and how you plan to implement it. We recommend to use the RFC issue template we provide.

The maintainers will label the issue as `type/feature` or `type/major_change` and `rfc/discussion` and will start a conversation with you to discuss it. If the proposal gets accepted it will be tagged as `rfc/approved`. Feel free to start coding at that point and propose a PR, linking it to the issue.

During the RFC process, your change proposal, alongside with implementation approaches, will get discussed with the maintainers, ensuring that you don’t waste time with wrong approaches or features that are out of scope for the project.

If, after the discussion, the proposal gets rejected, the team will give you an explanation, label the issue as `rfc/rejected` and close the issue.

### Bug fixes

If you have identified an issue that is already labeled as `type/bug` that hasn’t been assigned to anyone, feel free to claim it, and ask a maintainer to add you as assignee.
Once you have some code ready, open a PR, [linking it to the issue](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue#manually-linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue-using-the-pull-request-sidebar). Take into account that if the changes to fix the bug are not trivial, you need to follow the RFC process as well to discuss the options with the maintainers.

### Setting up your development environment

To work with this project you need to [download and install Go](https://go.dev/doc/install)

For local linting you need to install `shellcheck` using brew: `brew install shellcheck`.

### Testing and linting your changes

Run tests: `make test-all`

Run linters: `make vet shellcheck`

CI runs `make ci` to validate the changes.

### AI code assistants

You are welcome to use AI code assistants as part of your contributions, but you should carefully read the rest of the contributing guidelines, as those still apply, regardless of the tools used for the contribution. For example, if you are planning to create a new feature, you should follow the RFC process ([described above](#new-features)) before starting to code.

Also, any contributions, even with the help of AI assistants, should be yours and you are responsible of understanding the project and its codebase and the changes you are making. The maintainers may close your contribution if they suspect that it has been heavily generated by AI with no review or no tests from the contributor. 

_Optional but highly recommended_ 
This repository includes an [AGENTS.md](https://agents.md/) that your AI code assistant should reference if you are using these tools as part of your contributions. 

### 3rd party license update

To update 3rd party license file use [dd-license-attribution](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-license-attribution)

## Contributing to issues

### Contributing to reporting bugs

If you think you have found a bug in `helm-plugin` feel free to report it. When creating issues, you will be presented with a template to fill. Please, fill as much as you can from that template, including steps to reproduce your issue, so we can address it quicker.

### Contributing to triaging issues

Triaging issues is a great way to contribute to an open source project. Some actions you can perform on an open by someone else issue that will help addressing it sooner:

- Trying to reproduce the issue. If you can reproduce the issue following the steps the reporter provided, add a comment specifying that you could reproduce the issue.
- Finding duplicates. If there is a bug, there might be a chance that it was already reported in a different issue. If you find an already reported issue that is the same one as the one you are triaging, add a comment with "Duplicate of" followed by the issue number of the original one.
- Asking the reporter for more information if needed. Sometimes the reporter of an issue doesn’t include enough information to work on the fix, i.e. lack of steps to reproduce, not specifying the affected version, etc. If you find a bug that doesn’t have enough information, add a comment tagging the reporter asking for the missing information.
